# HDDB:Efficient In-Storage SQL Database Search Using Hyperdimensional Computing on Ferroelectric NAND Flash [DAC'2026]

This is the repo for the software query simulation of the paper: HDDB: Efficient In-Storage SQL Database Search Using Hyperdimensional Computing on Ferroelectric NAND Flash

**Abstract**: Hyperdimensional Computing (HDC) encodes information and data into high-dimensional distributed vectors that can be manipulated using simple bitwise operations and similarity searches, offering parallelism, low-precision hardware friendliness, and strong robustness to noise. These properties are a natural fit for SQL database workloads dominated by predicate evaluation and scans, which demand low energy and low latency over large fact tables. Notably, HDC’s noise-tolerance maps well onto emerging ferroelectric NAND (FeNAND) memories, which provide ultra-high density and in-storage compute capability but suffer from elevated raw bit-error rates. In this work, we propose HDDB, a hardware–software co-design that combines HDC with FeNAND multi-level cells (MLC) to perform in-storage SQL predicate evaluation and analytics with massive parallelism and minimal data movement. Particularly, we introduce novel HDC encoding techniques for standard SQL data tables and formulate predicate-based filtering and aggregation as highly efficient HDC operations that can happen in-storage. By exploiting the intrinsic redundancy of HDC, HDDB maintains correct predicate and decode outcomes under substantial device noise (up to 10\% randomly corrupted TLC cells) without explicit error-correction overheads. Experiments on TPC-DS fact tables show that HDDB achieves up to 80.6× lower latency and 12,636× lower energy consumption compared to conventional CPU/GPU SQL database engines, suggesting that HDDB provides a practical substrate for noise-robust, memory-centric database processing.
 
## Requirements
 - numpy
 - cupy
 - pandas
 - scipy
 - duckdb
 
## To Run

    python -run.py
 
It will automatically execute random filter and aggregation queries against the query result generated by DuckDB.

## Config hyperparameters
Hyperparameter and noise simulation can be changed on top of run.py

## Extension to more SQL tables
There are helper functions for automatic encoding plan configuration in common.py. Place table declaration and encoding plan in tpcds_meta.py and table_configs appropriately.
